UCD Lecture Notes


13/2/24

Two aspects (Theoretical)

Norman Doors are stupid design

Affordance - The design itself shows you how to use it, its intutive  e.g coffee cup shows us how to use it 

USB is bad design whereas HDMI has only one way to go in 

Poorly Designed products have low usability 


ISO 

"the extent to which a product can be used by specified users to achieve specified goals with effectiveness, effciency and satisfaction in a a specficifed context of use"


a product is not likley to be successful if it has poor usability 


Nielsens Components of Usability 

Learnability - Easy for users to accomplish their tasks
Effciency - How quickly can they perform tasks 
Memorability - Will users return to using the design after first contact 
Errors - Will the users make errors and are they easy to be recovered 
Satisfaction - Pleasant to use?

Usability 

Being pretty isnt the main goal 


What is UCD 

A methodology used by devs and designers eo ensure they make profucts that meets the users needs 

if you dont build toward the user you have wasted time and money 

Skills are useless if you cant use them in user/market needs 

UCD techniques make it more likely that your product will be a success 



Who is the expert? 
You are not the user of the product that you are building 

You are not the user 
the user is the expert of what they want
You need user input 

4 steps

Analysis of the current system (if it exists)

Design of improved system 

Implementation of the design e.g prototype 

Evaluation of the prototype to check it meets the users needs 



19/2 - Tutorial

UX process - Data collection card sorting, interviews, surveys 
it displays what the user wants, their preferences and goals 

e.g User groups -> Target Audience -> RMIT library -> Existing product -> Students/Faculty 


Usability? easy? type users - experienced and inexperienced users: tech savvy and a person who is no tech savvy 


20/2 - User Research

Customer/client is often not the user. 
NTT contracted for PTV and not the general public 



How do you find users?

Existing products.
Already have users  

New products: 
Usually the client will have access to the users 
If your team has a marketing team they may locate the users for you BUT if you are 
by yourself or small team you may have to do it yourself 

Ways to find?
Google Ads and ask advertise survery participation or advertise a fake product 

Social media groups to gather more data (you must get permissions from mods however)

Collecting Data - 

1. Surveys, Observations, Diary Studies and Interviews (Direct Tools )
2. Analytics, behaviour tracking (indirect tools)
3. Own perception of systems (this could be way out of scope for the potential users)
4. Always Gather as much as you can 
5. You are to extract the signal from the noise 

User Charactersitics (Basically Observing them omegalul)
Age?
Indentified Gender?
Ethnicity
Income 
Location 
Others 

Depending on how you present it can often say a lot of what the person designing is like and give either a positive or negative expectation with your product 

UCD is used to understand the users 
Goals, Motivations
Need Empathy so you can understand them (you CANNOT change nor Educate them)
Think from users perspective 
How easy/Hard the product is and how they are using it 


USER GROUPS 
Users are human and never identical 
Divided into diff groups 
user groups can be difficult to identify 


TOP TASKS
Most bang for buck with development time x Money 
Tasks should be as easy as possible to finish 
You should link Similar tasks to make it more easier for the users 





27/2 - PERSONAS (not persona by Atlus)


What is a persona? 
A persona is a representative user. not a actual person but a character similar to the actual users of the the product 

Personas make it easier for designers to think about what users might actually want, having a fictitious person makes the user data more concrete and more real 

Personas discourages designers from designing for themselves 
Multiple personas is the most ideal 
A persona should have a life, lore, name and lots of detail that will provide fruitfull for your product 

Persona MUST be based on real 'typical' characteristics of the user group 

information comes from research to determine behaviours, motivations, needs, expectations and typical demographic information 


User research involves analyzing data to identify commonalities and differences among potential users, leading to the discovery of clusters representing distinct user personas. For example, research may reveal a significant cluster of retired individuals who travel to visit family, reporting characteristics such as frailty and poor eyesight. Further investigation unveils their specific needs, such as searching for services like food, duty-free gifts for their children, and mobility aids. This information allows for the creation of a detailed user profile or persona, aiding in designing tailored services and products for this specific user type.


Persona Elements: 
Persona Group
Fictional Name
Age, Location, Income 
Other identifying charatersitics 
Goals 
Motivations 
Pain Points 




5/3 - Design Framework x Context Scenarios


Visual Design Framework
	Whats in a Visual one:
		Colour
		Icons
		Fonts
		GUI components
		Placement of GUI 
		Gui Patterns (Errors be indicated)
		Stylistic Rules

Interaction Frame Work
	Whats in a Interaction one:
		End to End description of user interactions (First contact to last)

		Tools:
		Context scenarios 
		Storyboards 
		Use cases 
		Wire frames



Persona - describes user charactersitsics, goals/motivation, pain points 

	context focuses on user than product details 
	high level overview of interaction 


Typical Context considerations
	What is the setting
	Will the product be used for long periods 
	is the uder frequently interrupted 
	how much privacy is there 
	what other products is used with it 