Exercise in sequence 
    1.
         running_total = 0 (Variable)
            ask for numbers from the user with a repeating command 4 times   
                add the numbers onto the current running total 
                    display the updated running total
                        after all 4 numbers have been inputted print the final number  
                            end



    
    
    2.      Ask the students for their names
                record down their age  
                    Repeat for 5 Steps 
                        Sort all of the ages into ascending order 
                            rewrite the ages in the correct order 
                                end
    
    
    
    3.          Wake up
                    Turn off alarm
                        walk to the shower 
                            turn on the water 
                                get washed 
                                    get dressed 
                                        grab the cereal 
                                            grab the milk 
                                                open the cereal box 
                                                    pour the cereal in the bowl 
                                                        open the milk 
                                                            pour the milk in the bowl 
                                                                eat the cereal and drink the milk 
                                                                    wash the bowl   
                                                                        put in headphones 
                                                                            grab wallet and bag 
                                                                                walk to door 
                                                                                    leave house 
                                                                                        end 


    
    
    
    4.   Ring the pizza place
            Choose the pizza type
                choose which crust you desire
                    choose between small large and extra large 
                        how many will you order?
                            would you like to add any extras? e.g garlic bread or coke 
                                give final price and how long it will be 
                                    end


    
    
    5.  
        print "welcome to the ATM"
            User input for theirr account type (either savings or credit) and then store what they have chosen 
                ask for the pin of their account and then store it 
                    verify if the pin is correct if it is correct continue else display message that informs user the pin is incorrect  
                        display the customers current balance 
                            ask if they want to deposit or withdrawl money 
                                if depost is selected ask for how much to be deposited and then add onto the current balance 
                                    else if withdrawl is selected 
                                        ask the user for how much to withdrawl 
                                            subtract the withdrawl money from the current balance 
                                                if it is still positive withdrawl the money else display "you dont have enough money for withdrawl" 
                                                    ask if they want to repeat else display the final sum
                                                        end 
                                                    

    
    
    6.          Enter the URL for the travel website 
                    create an account or log into one 
                        Search for the flights 
                            Look at the flights and book one thats perfect for you 
                                Select if its economy or first class 
                                    enter information for the tickets 
                                        enter banking details 
                                            confirm the booking 
                                                print thank you 










Exercise in Selection

            1.  Start 
                2. If user's details are in the system THEN 
                    3. If movie is in database THEN 
                        4. If the movie is in database display times THEN
                            5. If user is <18 >65 charge for 20 else if user is <18 charge 10 THEN 
                                6. If movie has been selected and age has been filled in display final booking THEN 
                                    7. Ask user to pay using thier card  
                                        8. Display tickets to the user THEN 
                                            9. ask if they need anymore 
                                Else display error selecting movie 
                            Else charge $15
                        Else print "no showing of selected movie"
                    Else if the movie isnt in the datbase display "No results found"
                Else make them make an account 





Exercise in Repetition 

1.Begin
2. Set prizenumber as Variable
3. for i in range (12)
4. ask for the childs name 
5. add 1 to the prizenumber
6. print "Congratulations (childs name), you have won prize <prize number>!
7. if prizenumber = 13
8. print "sorry there arent any prizes left" 
9. end 





TASK III 


1.1 

1. In computer jargon, what’s the difference between a statement and a comment?
    statement: Computer commands that runs the program 
    Comment: Note to the developer or others to identify comments (machine cannot read this)
2. What does it mean to say that a program is portable?
    the program can be used with many computers without needing changes 
3. In common English, what does the word compile mean?
    compile means to put something together. In computing however it converts human readable code into binary 
4. What is an executable? Why is that word used as a noun?
    An executable is a program that runs. it executes and carries out commands 
 

